[Music]
yeah my bad yeah okay will you announce
our
topic yes you are going to talk about
the lower level violences which is not
it is depending of your point of view
that you do not have the Alternatives as
you I mean the patients will not have
the alternatives to just go for the
psychological treatments or anything
else this kind of we are not talking
about big human rights violations but
this is something ongoing and it happens
to everybody it's Mass scale this is the
topic that you're going to cover if not
mistaken okay okay um me speak Greg and
I we speak will speak about um human
rights violations we are um
misinformation about um the risk of
dependence of uh psych psychotropic
drugs and um the denial of support and
withraw myself I'm a certified pedagogue
a social scientist and an independent
publisher in Berlin Germany and until 22
NE 2010 I was a longstanding board
member of the European network of
ex-users and survivors of Psychiatry
this means I belong to the group of
people with lift experience I deal with
the topic of withdrawal from Psychic
drugs since more than 50 years give
lectures and training also for
psychiatrists and Clinics and I
published books about this topic for for
example coming off psychotic drugs also
in German French Greek and Spanish it
was the first book uh in the world about
successful withdrawal from neuroleptics
anti-depressants and other drugs and
together with my friend Greg you see him
um recently I edited the book this draw
from prescribed psychotropic drugs
hopefully enri can enable translations
into French and
Spanish last Friday in Eric's lecture
series political abuse of Psychiatry the
former Human Rights Council special
reporter danus duras spoke in his
impressive presentation about political
abuse of Psychiatry amongst other bists
in the former Soviet Union after his
lecture I've asked him whether he could
see the border between the misuse of
psychiatry and its correct therapeutic
use admittedly a difficult question that
probably cannot be answered straight
away afterwards I
said about asking the same question
myself on Wikipedia I found a page
political political abuse of Psychiatry
and there the definition of Rob fanor
Robert is the chief executive of the
human rights and mental health
Federation global initiative on
Psychiatry I site him political abuse of
Psychiatry also commonly referred as a
punitive Psychiatry is a misuse of
Psychiatry including diagnosis detention
and treatment for purposes of
obstructing the human rights of
individuals and our groups in a society
end of citation Greek and our I are are
talking today about
informal psychiatric human rights
violations for this reason I would like
to
broaden the diff
differentiate and differentiate the
understanding of political abuse of
psychiatry in this form macro and
micropolitical abuse of Psychiatry is
the use of psychiatric diagnosis of
Detention of cursion of administration
of psychotropic drugs and electroshocks
without informed consent or with
misinformation about treatment risks
inclusively risks of dependence on
psychotrophic drugs and witholding of
support in their withdrawal for the
purposes of obstructing the fundamental
human and civil rights of certain groups
and individuals in the society this
would by be my definition I don't want
to talk about mcro macro political abuse
others have already talked a lot about
it foral cerion is well known informal
cerion is less visible has so far be
little addressed is no less profound in
its effects and is a pervasive psychic
practice
worldwide inal coercion is characterized
between others I repeat by withholding
information about the risks of
prescribed psychotropic drugs by
concealing the risk particularly on the
antidepres and tics and by this holding
of support in their
withdrawal these substances have a
number of toxic occasional
life-threatening or even fatal adverse
effects whether they are administered
comus compulsorily or with approval of
the affected person people
the serious psychiatric diagnosis and
appropriate treatment that is is
administration of neuroleptics in
antidepressant have a reduced life life
expend dency of 20 to 25 years on
average and these substances cause
physical
dependency now I have to mention some
psychiatrists udol digitz is a former
director of two psychic University
Hospitals in Germany and also a former
president of the German
Society for Psychiatry and neurology he
was the first psychiatrist in Germany to
provide specific information about the
risk of drug dependence on neuroptics
and ID
depress in
1967 he wrote about psycholeptics which
include anti-depressant and neuroleptics
I signed the reduction or
discontinuation of psycholeptics lead to
considerable withdrawal symptoms which
are in no way different from the
withdrawal symptoms following the
discontinuation of alkaloids and
sleeping pills end of
citation the chemical group of alkaloids
includes for example morphine well known
for its potential to build
dependency its withdrawal can also bring
major problems including life
threatening circulatory disorders with
shock
States and already in
1965 digitz had written about netics
iide we know now that it is extremely
difficult if not impossible for many of
The Chronic patients to stop neuroptics
because of the unbearable withdrawal
symptoms end of
citation Gard quinda is another German
psychiatrist he's a former chairman of
the task force psychop pharmacology of
the German Society for psychiaty and
neurology he warned of a vicious circle
that can arise from continued neptic
drug
use not publicly but in his technical
book addressed to his colleagues he
wrote in
2022 I side
the development of super sensitive
Dominic systems illustrates The Dilemma
of antipsychotic
pharmacotherapy every treatment with
dopamine 2 receptor
antagonists these are substances
directly against the action of dopamine
2 potentially carries the risk that
super sensitivity of the target
receptors will develop
however once this has ured a circle of
Tolerance development do increase and
further progression of the
pathophysiological process often
follows end of citation similarly in the
same year the Italian psychiatrist
javanna FAA warned in his book
discontinuing anti depers medications of
the consequences of adaptive
responses responses of continued
administration of anti-press
which involve changes of special sub
types of serotonine receptors
aside the clinical events that may
follow toring and or discontinuation of
antidepressent medication are very
variable they may arrange they may range
from no or limited withdrawal symptoms
to severe distra syndroms they may occur
within days if not hours or have a
delayed onset they may fade away or
persist for months or years accompan
accompanied by new disorders and now
greater intensity of the original
disturbance further distra and
persistent post destral disorders may be
associated with other
manifestations of Behavioral toxicity
such as a loss of clinical efficacy
paradoxical effects switching to bipolar
cause resistance and
refractoriness TR firms and doctors meld
a warning of those affected and their
relatives from to transformation of
psychotic props especially of
anti-depressants and
neuroptics most of the psychiatrists
deny the risk of drug dependence on
aners and tics with these arguments MRA
or how they call them discon symptoms
are only a symptom change of the
diagnosed disorder are greatly
overstated and solely signs of medical
mismanagement and due to too rapid
discontinuation are usually mild and
self-limiting and only in extremely rare
cases classified as more severe are
merely reported among the lay person
mrol community and the resulting
Publications are fold with anecdotal
reports of bad outcomes our neur
adaptive processes as they also occure
when discontinuing drugs prescribed in
Physical Medicine and persistent M
problems are only incidental
ones if an anti % this Con Sy from a
acuse for example the dsm5 guide book
names one easy possibility of solving
the problem taking anti pressence again
this way of dealing with Destra symptoms
is not new people dependent on alcohol
also alleviate thra symptoms by
continuing to reach for the
bottom finally and this is the killing
argument there is no craving for
antidepressants on tics but grav for a
substance would be is
indispensable condition for the ex
existence of drug
dependency okay so far the community of
psychiatrists who deny the existence of
drug dependence on tics and
anti-depressants braaing as a crucial
characteristic of dependence was
incorporated into the definition of drug
dependence
in the cytic classification systems in
the interests of the pharmaceutical
industry Court judgments in the 1980s
had led to convictions of psychiatrists
who had not warned of the risk of pensia
of
Independence the judic judic enforced
information about the risk of such a
drug dependence at led to a significant
decline in the sale figures for these
substances
to think that people feel a craving for
netics that means or substances that are
administered into terrarian states to
punish and torture dissidence requires a
dark
imagination and it's so absurb nobody
has ever claimed that there's a graving
for netics and anid depressants you just
you could just as easily claim that a
drug dependence only exists if the
person concerned Lear over time CA an
elephant's drunk out of their face and
perhaps many would also fall for such a
definition were only spread by people in
white codes of this medical doctor T
titles there are groups in Germany and
outside for example The International
Institute for Destro of psychic drugs
who publicly criticize these primitive
tactics they we are not alone in its
report to the general assembly of the
United Nations in
2015 the Human Rights Council working
group on arbitrary detention demanded
not only the immediate cessation of any
Force treatment but also non psycho
psychopharmacological
assistance and in its guideline number
20 e the final demand demand was I side
assistance in withdrawing from
medications should be made available for
those who so
decide end of citation in the same year
this demand was included in the same
wording in guideline 14 the right to
Liberty and security of persons with
disabilities of the UN convention on the
rights of persons with
disabilities and in October 23 last
month to
2023 the World Health Health
Organization and the United Nations High
commission for human rights demanded in
the protocol Mental Health Human Rights
and legislation not only a higher
standard for free and informed consent
but also a governmental initiative to
guarantee by law support in this draw
iight
legislation can require medical staff to
inform service users about their right
to discontinu treatment and to re
receive support in this support should
be provided to help people safely
withdraw from treatment with
drugs end of citation we should be aware
of these important statements and call
on governments and administrations and
organizations in the psychosocial field
at all levels to implement these all to
Justified and overdue demands without
delay experience has shown that the
lobbyists of the pharmaceutical
companies and the organizations of
mainstream psychiatrists will do
everything in their power to undermine
effective measures measures against the
micropolitical abuse of
Psychiatry until this happen
the programs of supportting withdraw
it's our task to do everything in our
power to publicise the risks and harms
of prescribed psychotropic drugs and to
develop a system of competent support
for the self-determined withdrawal with
further training Mis Publications
digital as well as analog by
participating in self advocacy
organizations organizations of
humanistic ansy Psychiatry or in
organizations that seriously want to
reform psychiatry in a direction of
human rights based
assistance of course it would even be
even better to develop a system of
Psychosocial support in which psycho
psychotropic drugs only play a
subordinate
role I mentioned some statements you can
find some of them and their sources on
the internet the address is Peter hen
lemman early AG
m.de D like Denmark e like England SL
ABC and you can find all of them in my
chapter for and against dependence on
antidepressants and tics who benefits in
the book is draw from prescribed psychic
drugs this book which I mentioned
already is about practical withdrawal
concepts for professionals patients and
relatives great newness will now
continue together with him I've
published the mentioned book thank you
very much for attention Greg now it's
your
turn
uh can you hear me now
yes okay well thank you Peter wonderful
as
ever
um I shall say a very small a little bit
about me not very much um the first
thing to say is uh you can find if you
just Google my name Craig noons you will
discover all the books I've published
all the activities I've done etc
etc I don't just publish psychology and
critical psychology books I've written
novels I've written children's
books um and all of those are on you'll
find them on Google I've been editor
of this the Journal of critical
psychology counseling and
Psychotherapy uh for 35 years so I'm
getting quite old and
tired and I I I guess the the the the
main kind of brief of the journal is to
critique all the claims that
Psychotherapy psychology and Psychiatry
make and that's very easy to do because
so many of the claims are simply claims
they're they're not based on on real
entities so for example the ID the ego
and the super ego they don't exist
they're just
names um schizophrenia doesn't
exist Behavior exists conduct exists but
schizophrenia there is
absolutely uh no construct validity or
reliability for for that particular
construct it's just a
word and
jccp says that kind of thing a
lot um I'm going to critique a little
bit our own
book because I spend my life critiquing
things so this is the book that Peter
mentioned withdrawal from prescribed
psychotropic drugs I would recommend it
it means that I can eat dinner because I
shall make a great deal of money I don't
think I
will however what I'm going to talk
about are the there are many many
suggestions in this
book for how to safely withdraw from
psychotropic
drugs uh I'm going to talk about several
things uh that make that make that very
difficult so for
example the networks that that this book
suggests networks that include uh
compassionate psychiatrists good do good
General
Practitioners uh kind relatives
friends many of these networks simply
don't
exist if they existed people wouldn't
get into trouble in the first place so
that's one problem a lot of networks
aren't
available another problem is that D
prescribers people who systematically
reduce the dose of the
drug they're also very unusual
what tends to happen as Peter mentioned
is that if someone is experiencing
withdrawal effects what will happen is
they will increase the dose not decrease
the
dose there's also a simple problem of
the sheer volume of work for the staff
involved so Junior Doctors Care staff
they have an enormous amount to do and
not very much time to do
it because of that it becomes much
easier to Simply simply give somebody a
tranquilizing drug and although we call
them antis psychotics they're not antis
psychotics they're just
tranquilizers it is just easier to give
someone a tranquilizing drug because if
that person is doing something very
difficult in a care home then and there
aren't many staff then for the staff it
is easier to give the drug if
it is a junior doctor who goes out into
the middle of nowhere goes out into the
I I live in a very country countrys a
rural place and if there were a junior
Doctor Who had to be called out at 3:00
in the morning in order to see someone
who was experiencing
difficulties the chances are that what
that doctor would do would be prescribe
a drug because that's the simplest thing
to do and I have
I I completely understand that I'm not
saying that's a bad thing or it's a bad
doctor I'm just saying that that's what
people will
do there's also a problem
of the sheer amount of uh
non-information well lies really that
Junior doctors and psychiatrists are
exposed
to and you know what so an example of
one of those lies is there is such a
thing as paranoid schizophrenia well
there isn't there is no such thing as
people have fears if you call it
schizophrenia you've just invented a
word so that's one lie but the other
lies come from um articles that are
sponsored very frequently by drug
companies and I'll give you an example
of one that that came up
online it's a relative to
Abilify so it's an SRI
and it is now being
prescribed uh for let me just see this
for
agitation in demented
people
now being demented is is difficult for
many people for relatives Etc the the
thing that makes it more difficult is
agitation so this this drug has now been
approved for ation in elderly people for
people in who are in who are
dementing however in I I it's in the um
jamama
neurology
um but I looked it up there were adverse
effects reported by
40% of the people receiving this
drug now that's that seems to me quite
quite a lot of people
40% another thing that I think makes it
very very difficult for people not to
prescribe drugs so they're they're
surrounded by information about drugs
and they're given they're given money by
drug companies to go to conferences and
all of that but another thing that I
think makes it very difficult is what's
described as a gift
relationship what that means is someone
comes to see a doctor someone comes to
see a
psychiatrist whatever clinical
psychologist they come to see a clinical
psychologist psychiatrist or or doctor
and they give something what they give
is a history about themselves they give
some of their
sadness they unburden themselves so they
are
giving the problem for the the therapist
or for the
doctor is that they immediately feel
they have to give
back and frequently if you're a
therapist what you will do is you will
give back by offering another
session if you're someone who prescribes
you will give back by offering a
drug now the person may not take the
drug but that's what you've done you've
suggested that a drug is the
answer
these drugs um as Peter was saying uh
because uh people aren't given realistic
information about withdrawal effects uh
about the adverse effects of the
drug uh these these drugs uh the actions
go against the Human Rights Act
particularly in this country the actions
go against the children's
act now there are two Clinical
Psychology courses in this country
University of East London and Liverpool
that are actually based on human
rights now I said I was going to talk
about the difficulties one of the
difficulties for the clinical
psychologists in terms of the human
rights that they that they are meant to
defend is
that they'll have leared about human
rights they'll have learned the
children's act as soon as they arrive in
a busy outpatient CL iic they're
expected to see as many patients as
possible and those patients might be
children with parents those parents
might be insisting that the child has
drugs or has therapy and what that means
is there is no possibility despite the
children's Act of offering informed
consent the child is too young to
accept the um the in in
reality if you're a therapist you can't
give informed consent because you have
no idea what's going to happen between
you and and a
patient I don't know what I'm going to
say in the next 20 seconds you don't
know how how you're going to react so
how could I give you informed consent
about what I'm going to
say one of the ways of attempting ing uh
to give informed consent and to to give
people a chance of at the very least
denying drugs or saying no to drugs is
the living
will and Peter is a was a major part of
creating the living will respect
respect again there is a problem with
the living will the problem with the
living will is that in the kind of
circumstances where people are
incarcerated they're put on what in
England it's called being put on Section
so they're sent into psychiatric
hospitals or they're given major
tranquilizers or they're even given
electroshock in those
circumstances there is no time for the
person to find an
advocate there is no will on behalf of
the uh of the people who are offering
the treatment to discover if there is a
living
will there must be many people who have
been through the psychiatric system who
have living wills and no one knew
that I'll give you an example of how
difficult this can
become I have a friend who is a high
court judge so he's up here that there
aren't many high court judges in in
England but he
is his son went mad
well all his son did was went down the
street shouting and people didn't like
that very much so the police were
called his father was called as was a
psychiatrist the father arrived at at
the police at the police
station and said what are you going to
do and the psychiatrist said I'm going
to have to give him
depixol and my friend said
I don't know what dep pixol is what does
that do oh don't worry about it says the
psychiatrist he needs it and I also
think he needs to be put on section and
sent to hospital for 48
hours now my friend the high court judge
couldn't do anything about that despite
the Human Rights Act and despite the
fact the psychiatrist had no legal
training he could override what the high
Court Judge
preferred there's another example which
is again depixol a good friend of mine
is a clinical
psychologist her daughter went a bit
crazy started saying she was hearing
things was very very upset and tearful
went into a shop and started shouting
the the way to get yourself admitted to
a psychiatric hospital is go to a shop
and Shout it's simply stops capitalism
it's a it's a brilliant thing to do if
you want if you want to get yourself
arrested and sent to hospital stop
capitalism by going to a shop and
shouting this is what this girl
did the girl was um sent to well she was
picked up by the police then she was
sent to a psychiatric hospital her
mother who's a clinical psychologist a
senia clinical psychologist arrived
asked what was going to happen and the
answer was we're going to keep her in
hospital for 48 hours and put her on dep
pixel so that's two people put on dep
pixel within 48 Hours of each other that
I
know and the mother couldn't do anything
about it because the psychiatrist
overrode anything that that she
said there are um there are many other
examples I can give
you um but these the these examples are
some are hopeful some are less hopeful
these are about
withdrawal so I have I have a friend
Zach I play I mean I play in a band and
he he's a brilliant
guitarist and he was on um uh he was on
Prozac for 27
years and I agreed to help him withdraw
from
Prozac now now one of the things I
believe is it is much it's not much
easier but it is easier to withdraw if
you're taken out of the context that you
live
in and I have a a place in
France so I took Zach to
France and
unbelievably Zach went cold turkey after
years and I literally had to hold him
down for four
days now he could have died he could
have died thank God he didn't
die Zach hasn't had any any of this drug
for seven years
now equally there's a a one of my
friends uh a friend of one of my friends
mom she had hip
surgery and and she had been on an
anti-depressant for about 15
years she went into hospital for hip
surgery and they immediately took her
off the
anti-depressant and of course she had
the most terrible terrible withdrawal
effects so Zach was very lucky he he had
me to to do this um my my friend's mom's
friend was much less lucky and she's
she's okay now but it's been six weeks
and
she's she's slowly but surely getting
better and I I'll give you another
example of how difficult it is to
prevent people being prescribed drugs
and this again applies to
dementia this applies to my
mom and I I looked after to my mom for a
long time because she was she was very
ill and very
frail and but she but she began to to to
lose lose her
mind and she was indeed eventually
admitted to a
home now because she was admitted to the
home I had to sign a
form that said it would be
reasonable for them to prescribe drugs
for my mother if she became
agitated and my mother spent three years
in this home she's died now but she
spent three years in this home being
suppressed by these
drugs and I can understand why they did
it because looking after someone who's
screaming at you and lashing out is very
difficult but even though I'm a
psychologist my brothers lived locally
all of that we couldn't do anything
about it because they insisted we signed
a form that gave them the right to give
drugs if they thought it was
necessary so just to
summarize there are some considerable
problems with
fulfilling all the things this wonderful
book
suggests there are problems like people
just don't have supportive Networks
there are problems like psychiatrists
who will deprescribe are quite
rare there's the problem of the sheer
volume of work for junior doctors and
for Care
staff there's the problem of the gift
relationship where someone goes to see a
doctor they offer something from of of
themselves and the doctor feels they
must give something back and the only
thing they can give is a
drug there's the problem that even
though some clinical psychologists are
well-versed in human rights and the
children's act they go and work in
places where informed consent
particularly for children is
impossible and finally there's the
problem that even if you have something
like a living
will people would have to know you have
the living
will even if you have the living will in
this country it can overridden by a
psychiatrist's
opinion so I don't want to finish on a
negative
note but
sadly uh that that that's where I need
to
finish thank
you thank you
Peter thank you so
much any anybody would like to make a
question then I I do can I yes sorry go
ahead
pleas yes we hear
you moment
I have a problem with my tablet can you
hear me yes
yes that was very interesting uh what
Peter said and also GRE Nunes was very
very interesting for me even though I
know I already know a lot about
the using of this kind of drugs uh maybe
I'm allowed to tell my story in a trying
to say it in a very quick way my problem
that I currently have since almost two
years and uh I was taking CRA Lex or in
England they call it leabo estal Bram
for 18 years from 2004 to
2022 I had
a depression I had well I was in a bad
mood I had problems that's too
psychological problems in the 90s
beginning 2000 so and I started to use
different kind of drugs first also a
proac some and some others sine are
called solof at this time but not for a
very long time they didn't help me at
all they made meated they make me
headache they make me over thrilled and
I don't know a lot of side effects
and
then in 2004 I was suggested to take
first Pam that doesn't help me cly and
then they changed it or my doctor
changed it to leabo yeah for a small
dose of 10
mgram and as well as I remember it
helped me for a while I have to admit it
helped me for a while I would
say maybe six months
also
but after a while uh I came to my doctor
and said I don't feel well anymore it's
I have this side effects I have Nowa I
have
uh weight gain and so on but I was not
aware about that this will really side
effect of leab I was not aware of it and
all what the doctor did he said well we
have to inre the dose
no and he increased to 20
migam and that was not good at all for
me at this time as I remember and then
he reduced it again to 10 millgram then
to 15 and in the end again to 20 and
then I have to say I was sterilized yeah
I can say I was deviled for years in a
way that I
was like being emotionally num numb you
know it's
like
uh I could do my work I was I was
functional I would take care of my
elderly parents I could do my job and
but I never can say that I really
had and was enjoying my life yeah I was
in my living in my own world was I can
describe it like this no and all the
years go by and the side effects were
getting stronger over the years yeah
stronger and stronger especially I would
say the last three or four
years
and I had increased 15 kilogram as a
weight gain was a lot and I heard the
flesh no I it was like electric senses
in my brain all the time I had strong uh
tinitus sometimes I already didn't hear
something anymore it was a sound a big
loud humming sound in my ear and in this
year also but I was not aware where it
comes from yeah and my doctor always
said you have to use dexa you have to
take the DU you need it you cannot uh
get rid of it you need it yeah and I was
every morning I was taking my pill then
I had my coffee it was going to work I
didn't think about it anymore and then
the side effects were getting so strong
in
2020 2020 already and even more in 2021
yeah after my mom died in this Corona
times in 20120 it was the horrible times
I were going through you know first my
father died and then my mom it's was
terrible and uh I couldn't visit her
anymore she was in an elderly home only
for a short time after being
hospitalized for several weeks and then
the people were not allowed to get in
anymore and it was everything it was
really terrible for
me and uh
well in 2021 in the end of this year I
got uh s
influenza and the side effects were
getting very very strong and I said to
my family doctor I want to get rid of
leab I want to stop
it I have my I have decided to stop it
and then I called my
psychiatrist I could not visit him
because first I didn't get an
appointment very quick and because I was
uh with this influenza I he said no you
cannot visit me uh it's too dangerous
for the for covid and everything this is
too dangerous we we only can do online
meetings or by phone calls and then he
said if you really want to stop this
truck reduce it every week 5 milligrams
less from 20 milligram 5 milligram So
within five weeks in January
2022 I was finished with leabo at talob
and that was too rapidly yeah that but I
know now it was much too
rapidly in February March
first it was
uh well I had this Co then I had Co also
after my withdrawal I have to say I had
Co and I was laying in bed with um like
a strong
influenza but the withdrawal effects
they came very very strong protracted I
would say in the end of March and April
yeah the heart break down over me
yeah I had no for months I couldn't eat
anymore I had muscle pain I had this
brain fat I had this humming sound in my
ear getting getting stronger I couldn't
hear something
anymore inside of me a feeling I it's
hard to describe I still have this
feeling it's it's terrible yeah I'm
Restless sometimes I cannot sit down for
hours I have to walk always or walk
around all the time and I cannot make
any decision even for simple
things it's sometimes for maybe it's it
sounds ridiculous but I cannot even make
up my mind shall I make coffee or shall
I make tea that takes a long long time I
cannot leave the house I cannot work
yeah I cannot
sleep I have people
insomnia but the insomnia I got
when I made my reinstatement this is the
next point I really for me it's
important to tell you
all I was suffering after this
withdrawal in 2022 all the year
through
and I thought about reinstating the
truck and there was a short period of
time I reinstated with BR pelix this is
a medicine not available in
Germany anymore it was from it's uh from
Switzerland it was ordered from
Switzerland and I read in the internet
that it could maybe help with
the withdrawal
symptoms and I tried this in Jun for
about two
weeks but it made everything worse yeah
again after BR Felix I got strong flu
like
symptoms then I was sweating I was
freezing I was in I made
horrible time part of this guy
ear Rainer I'm I'm very sorry I mean
it's a it's a ter it's a terrible story
yeah but I I must interrupt you because
UTA has raised her hand several times
and she would like to
speak
okay yeah I um why I also wrote a little
um note in the chat because I told you
to understand that these are really
terrifying experiences so we should make
a workshop or something for everybody to
have more time for exchange and today we
have to be shorter so um I am really um
I of course I've been following peters's
work um for um many years and um
initially I remember I was against
um the idea that uh psychiatrists um as
uh in Breakers medical professionals uh
should be legally
um prosecuted or whatever the right term
is for
um prescribing um psychiatric drugs um
because I thought that the guidelines
would tell the doctors
you know that patients need them so it's
a difficult um legal
situation however
after after working with more mely and a
lot of exchange reading different books
I just reread anatomy of an epidemic
like 10 years after the first time and
it's
horrifying um my interest to v a new
about the legal situation and I'm not um
so I I do not know anybody who is an
expert um or a group of experts um that
would like to really investigate
[Music]
um yes from from a legal and human
rights professional legal and human
rights um point of view if it if it is
permissible to have guidelines to
make the claims they do and
um anyway what I'm interested in is
there any people from the legal studies
field that are interested to
deep to to look deep into the subject
matter and to come up perhaps with legal
advice that is more useful to
us
yes sorry the simple answer is yes so in
the
book uh there is a chapter by Jim
gin and Jim gin is a lawyer in Hawaii
and Alaska it's a very good chapter by
Jim and there's also a chapter by uh
Marina
langfeld and this is about the liability
that drug companies have because they
don't give enough information about
withdrawal and other effects
and and it is possible to and it has
been done it is possible to take drug
companies to court because they don't
give this
information and there's also uh well
there's also Peter's chapter on the
psychosocial Advanced Directive the the
living will uh but in terms of pure
legal um advice the two chapters are
chapters 25 and 26
by Marina langfeld and Jim Jim gin so
it's there it's in there
hey um I can I I
can can I speak can I say something um
I I had this the question to Peter c um
two hours before how um because I
discussed this um problem very often
with Marina langfeld Marina langfeld is
a is um what is the English term
obal over
M do you know the English term
if no I was try to Google something okay
um yeah and and she was a German
representative to the United Nations in
this comedy Against torture and
mistreatment and um she said um it's
very hard um to um to go to cour against
big drug companies because um it's
expensive you you should have a private
a securance um who takes a risk then
there is a problem um to find um if a
court um calls um they decide for an
expert um in general it's some
mainstream psychiatrist you will see
there is no um no dependence no problem
I guess in such a case like um like
rhina rhina tells it's it's so clear
there would be a chance but he's he has
no insecure so um it's there is no
chance um
um because he he he cannot he cannot pay
um um this um very very big c it's a big
problem this the main problem um the
chance would be there because I guess in
all European countries there is this law
on medical drugs where the manufacturers
have to guarantee that they inform the
doctors um um um according to the um to
the science um about risks and all
things and they don't do it if you look
on on these summaries of prod
characteristics also called information
inserts um drug companies tell doctors
to withdraw um for example close up pin
um slowly in two
weeks um which is an absolutely a crime
because um jine is totally known for its
problem to come off and if people have
taken clapin for 20 years um it's 100%
sure they get psychotic if they um if
they withdraw so quickly and and even
doctors with Goodwill who want to
support and follow this instructions for
the manufacturers and Destroy such drugs
um within two weeks it's a catastroph
and it's similar also with a lot of um
ssris sris um they say for your 13 and
others um they say do it slowly take two
weeks um which is totally nonsense and
which is really a crime and if you speak
with any psychiatrist they say oh what a
nonsense um but this is a
practice and to go against this practice
um you have to go to court and and fight
against the um other the drug companies
the situation has been a little bit
better because um you do not have to
prove that
exclusively a damage is caused by a drug
um meanwhile there was a core decision
by the European Court which say when
it's very likely that the damage is
caused by a drug um this is enough um uh
but but um yeah to find some somebody
who is a uh has a in a good position
this is a real problem in in
Europe and I hope our book will
encourage doctors thank you just know
really keep us informed is there's more
people who are willing to take up like
we um Scholars you know Scholars from
from Le of Soros if there's anybody who
really wants to take up a fight I think
that would be fantastic I I would much
welcome the news good
news yeah but it's not only the money
it's also the nerves which are have to
be very
strong
yes I I do apologize because I don't
know how to how to
name somebody was racing racing the the
Han is the last one in the list after
you if she he they still want to that
will be lovely last
question you mean me hello that is it
thank you so
much so George in Greek it's George
fantastic so um hello my name is George
I'm from Greece in my profession I'm a
psychologist and I'm a member of the
Observatory for their human rights and
mental health here in Greece it's an
organization so um I want to the
conversation that besides what is
happening uh with the all the companies
the which are dealing with
drugs there is another issue which is
the social narrative what is mental
health which is right now it's very big
and for me a thinking that's only that's
only the
company that's actually shooting because
that's not the
case a lot of people who are Chans that
have some power they don't
know what is the Psychiatry they don't
know what is the mental health mental
pain and they contribute in a way which
is very difficult I'm right now I'm in a
case where a
woman she was in a
um she was in the case she was in a
situation with
her not husband her boyfriend and he was
um violent to her and she not
get way she made a court order for her
to get in Psychiatry and she gave her
newborn two months newborn baby to the
police because she want to get
away after a couple of days she relaxed
and she want to get out and she want to
get her baby back now
the to give her baby because she
has
a a history a mental health
history so they are now involved
um the law prosecutors they're now
involved um mental health professionals
and they all don't want to give the baby
back because she has a mental health
history and the only thing that they are
checking out is if she is getting the
drugs or
not so this is the social narrative that
is happening here which is very strong
and it's very difficult
to take it
over
yes thank you
yes
Peter Craig do you want to comment on on
George my my only comment would be that
what we call uh mental health or mental
disorder is expanding all the time all
the
time I I could diagnose any of you
no problem at
all and there's a reason for that um the
American Psychiatric association votes
all these categories into the diagnostic
and statistical
manual and what they want to do is
expand it to such a point that anybody
can be
diagnosed and now what happens certainly
in English
newspapers every day someone says oh I
did this because I was
depressed oh I did this because I had
this disorder that
disorder there's a a newspaper called
the
guardian and five of the journalists
regularly talk about the fact that they
are
depressed so it somehow or
other being not
depressed I'm not
depressed I must be
absolutely
unique I'm probably the only person I
know that isn't mad or
diagnosable but that's the problem the
problem is that the categories have just
become so wide and you can now have an
excuse for any kind of behavior by
saying I did it because I was
depressed I beat up my wife because I
was abused as a child
child etc
etc so I think to add to sort of show
George's
point I think part of the difficulty is
just the expansion of the idea of mental
disorder and finding mental health is
very difficult I'm mentally healthy
Peter's mentally healthy that's two of
us
I have I have read in the psychiatrist's
book um the main problem is the they are
new drugs but they need dis find to find
disorders um um um new disorders um to S
these drugs and to to um yeah yeah um to
yeah to administer them um r r said he
has an urgent question Rina can you say
it quickly and short
short your question short please okay I
try thank you like I said I made this
first reinstatement with BR Alix and I
tried again to because I was suffering
so so much this spring in 19 2023 with a
very small dose
ofal and uh this made everything worse
again for me and I got a lot of
additional
symptoms that uh are very very uh
terrible for me to Bear yeah so I don't
know what to do anymore I
really I see no way to get out of this
nightmare I go from Doctor to doctor I
go to online I correspond with online
Forum but nobody can give
me the right advice what I can do in my
situation I'm really absolutely Despair
and I don't know what to do yeah I
really don't know is there a way
question to a question what you should
do is there a way that anybody might
might know maybe
Drake uh he's a very experienced man who
give me an advice what can be done
because my brain fog is getting worse my
cognitive disorders I have I'm I was
speaking English very good but I
realized that I forgot a lot of words
yeah it's sitation for me I just got a a
question from an from an American um who
wants to withraw anti depress and faces
big problems and he asked me um um where
should we go um money doesn't play any
role and I recently um read the book of
joavan Father um who is a psychiatrist
in bolognia and in Buffalo New York Cate
and I advised him um I guess this is the
most um um competent person um to go to
him to go to Chan FAA this was my um
answer for him and he was very lucky um
and said he will try to do
it so I should try to contact him if he
can give me any advice to I can give you
javan's some email and you can ask
him that would be great that would be
wonderful because I really
I'm I don't know how to survive I can't
work anymore I have no money anymore
what can I do it's you will have it in
10 minutes I can't sleep I have t
insomnia since tell these things joavan
um you um told us
already I I will
okay thank you you're
welcome
trer wishing that you find a solution
somebody and a community group that can
help you not only one professional
sometimes what happens only one
available in the area or none and they
are also suffering because it's hard for
everybody that want to do something
different like simple as not having to
take the drug they have told
you
my
apologies uhuh do let go
and yeah
May sorry I'm going to transcribe in the
chat if that's okay
very
enri
experien
gracias thank you so much rer for your
share your
experience
l
enib
for
partip
or
and
salal
[Music]
inform
Di
la
fr
Eng
[Music]
Latino
investig socios anthropos
thas
Lo
volun
anticip cons
Sal
a
inv
fantastic
yeah I'm gonna post this on everything
with the transcription
transcription to everybody that is here
he is asking now for suggestions and
what to cover how to interact how to
Cate just that how to create Bridges
between our movements here in Europe
with them and build the momentum we were
talking at the beginning of the of the
event when when Peter Gro was
introducing the again he was presenting
the the prescription the taping strips
how to how to achieve the grad
incremental changes the big ones if the
grand khoka wants to achieve anything
else
how
what will you ask him for the next
recording I'm sorry Enrique I I must go
I I I have an
appointment thank you very much for
inviting me but but I must leave yes
thank you thank you good luck everybody
thank you
thank you we not immune to what they
will do it to
usch good
luck Peter thank you so much it has been
great and to hear that now you both of
you are not in danger that is a big deal
to hear that fake is taking full
responsibility but also he feel that he
is not going to be diagnosed
full full
stop that that is something having that
certainty is it is a safety that not all
of us have
had
for supports
groups
[Music]
IND
scratches
[Music]
El
Grand
is
no
no particip
professional person
me
Rec
in
they are inviting you to visit the
Granda is a place in the countryside I
did my best to share this in the in the
chat it is a wonderful project and I
would love to know how is it working Etc
all that the scientist will just ask how
how does it out
after if
you if you want
see
I sorry I have to leave my wife calls
for dinner this is a must
sorry thank you thank
you
for
e
an
[Music]
for
my apolog R I'm gonna do my best to
synthetize at the end
everything
for
no
[Music]
for
what is
[Music]
for
e
[Music]
IND
for
yeah
f
for
[Music]
in
so
for
person
GR
for
AR
[Music]
for
is
Med
Gra
for
[Music]
Fore
for
gracias